docs(create-windows-vm): disk bus guidance (virtio-blk default) and Hyper-V enlightenments (#1076)
harvester/docs: docs/vm/create-windows-vm.md

    2. `Type`: Select `disk`.
    3. `StorageClass`: You can use the default StorageClass `harvester-longhorn` or specify a custom one.
    4. `Size`: The value `32` is set by default. See the disk space requirements for [Windows Server](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/get-started/hardware-requirements#storage-controller-and-disk-space-requirements) and [Windows 11](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/whats-new/windows-11-requirements#hardware-requirements) before changing this value.

>     5. `Bus`: The default value is `VirtIO`. For Windows workloads that generate sustained writes (such as large file copies, database write-ahead logs, and backup targets), `SCSI` (`virtio-scsi`) generally outperforms `VirtIO` (`virtio-blk`) because it supports multiple queues and uses a more efficient `DISCARD` path. `SATA` is a secondary option for scenarios where paravirtualized drivers cannot be loaded at boot time.

Reviewer: I am curious about this one, since Kubevirt did not support SCSI with multiple queues.
I need to check... Or do we have any reference for it?

Author: Reverted to VirtIO.

>     5. `Bus`: The value `VirtIO` is set by default. For Windows workloads that generate sustained writes (for example large file copies, database write-ahead logs, or backup targets), `SCSI` (virtio-scsi) generally performs better than `VirtIO` (virtio-blk) — it supports multiple queues and has a more efficient DISCARD path. `SATA` is a compatible fallback for scenarios that cannot load paravirtualized drivers at boot time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    5. `Bus`: The default value is `VirtIO`. For Windows workloads that generate sustained writes (such as large file copies, database write-ahead logs, and backup targets), `SCSI` (`virtio-scsi`) generally outperforms `VirtIO` (`virtio-blk`) because it supports multiple queues and uses a more efficient `DISCARD` path. `SATA` is a secondary option for scenarios where paravirtualized drivers cannot be loaded at boot time.
```

1. The **Management Network** is added by default with the following values: 
    1. `Name`:  The value `default` is set by default. You can keep it or change it.

>     2. `Model`: The value `e1000` is set by default so the guest can obtain network connectivity before paravirtualized drivers are installed. Once VMDP (or virtio-win drivers) is loaded inside the guest, switching to `virtio` provides higher throughput and lower CPU overhead for sustained network transfers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    2. `Model`: The default value is `e1000`. This option ensures the guest operating system can obtain network connectivity before paravirtualized drivers are installed. Once VMDP (or VirtIO drivers such as `virtio-win`) is loaded inside the guest, switching to `virtio` provides higher throughput and lower CPU overhead for sustained network transfers.
```

1. `OS Type`: The value `Windows` is set by default. It's recommended you don't change it.
2. `Machine Type`: The value `None` is set by default. It's recommended you don't change it. See the [KubeVirt Machine Type](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/virtual_machines/virtual_hardware/#machine-type) documentation before you change this value.
3. (Optional) `Hostname`: Set the VM hostname.

> 4. (Optional) `Cloud Config`: Both `User Data` and `Network Data` values are set with default values. If the selected Windows image ships with [Cloudbase-Init](https://cloudbase.it/cloudbase-init/) (a common addition to modern Windows images), the `User Data` is processed at first boot and can inject per-VM configuration — SSH keys, local administrator accounts, VMDP install commands, hostname, first-boot PowerShell scripts, and so on. If the image does not include Cloudbase-Init, the `User Data` is still stored on the noCloud drive but nothing inside the guest will consume it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. `Cloud Config` (Optional): The values for both `User Data` and `Network Data` are set by default. If the selected Windows image includes [Cloudbase-Init](https://cloudbase.it/cloudbase-init/) (a common addition to automated Windows cloud images), the guest processes the `User Data` during its initial boot phase. This allows injection of custom configurations (such as SSH keys, local administrator accounts, driver installation commands, custom hostnames, and first-boot PowerShell scripts) for each virtual machine. If the image does not include Cloudbase-Init, the system still mounts the `User Data` on the configuration drive (`NoCloud` ISO format), but the guest operating system ignores it.
```

:::

## Recommended Tuning

### Enable Hyper-V Enlightenments

Windows guests benefit substantially from KubeVirt's Hyper-V TLFS (Top-Level Functional Specification) enlightenment set — paravirtualized interrupt delivery (SynIC), the Hyper-V synthetic timer with direct interrupts, TLB flush hypercalls, VAPIC, and the Hyper-V clock timer. Enabling them typically:

- Reduces first-touch write allocation time on thin-provisioned storage.
- Smooths out sustained-write throughput and reduces periodic stalls during large file copies.

> - Lowers per-interrupt scheduling overhead inside the guest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Windows guests benefit significantly from KubeVirt's Hyper-V Top-Level Functional Specification (TLFS) enlightenment features. These include paravirtualized interrupt delivery (SynIC), the Hyper-V synthetic timer with direct interrupts, TLB flush hypercalls, VAPIC, and the Hyper-V clock timer. Enabling these features typically results in the following:

- Reduced initial write allocation time on thin-provisioned storage.
- Stable throughput during sustained write operations and minimal periodic stalls during large file copies.
- Lower per-interrupt scheduling overhead within the guest operating system.
```

The enlightenments are not enabled by default in the VM creation form. To apply them, click **Edit as YAML** in the VM edit view and add the following to `.spec.template.spec.domain`:

```yaml
features:
  acpi: { enabled: true }
  apic: { enabled: true }
  smm:  { enabled: true }
  hyperv:
    relaxed:    { enabled: true }
    vapic:      { enabled: true }
    spinlocks:  { enabled: true, spinlocks: 8191 }
    vpindex:    { enabled: true }
    synic:      { enabled: true }
    synictimer: { enabled: true }
    ipi:        { enabled: true }
    runtime:    { enabled: true }
    reset:      { enabled: true }
clock:
  utc: {}
  timer:
    hpet:   { present: false }
    hyperv: { present: true }
    pit:    { tickPolicy: delay }
    rtc:    { tickPolicy: catchup }

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
The enlightenments are _not_ enabled by default. To enable them, perform the following steps:

1. On the Harvester UI, go to **Virtual Machines**.

1. Locate the target virtual machine, and then select **⋮ > Edit as YAML**.

1. Add the following block to `.spec.template.spec.domain`:

  ```yaml
  features:
    acpi: { enabled: true }
    apic: { enabled: true }
    smm:  { enabled: true }
    hyperv:
      relaxed:    { enabled: true }
      vapic:      { enabled: true }
      spinlocks:  { enabled: true, spinlocks: 8191 }
      vpindex:    { enabled: true }
      synic:      { enabled: true }
      synictimer: { enabled: true }
      ipi:        { enabled: true }
      runtime:    { enabled: true }
      reset:      { enabled: true }
  clock:
    utc: {}
    timer:
      hpet:   { present: false }
      hyperv: { present: true }
      pit:    { tickPolicy: delay }
      rtc:    { tickPolicy: catchup }
  ```
````

Restart the VM for the changes to take effect. Verify from outside the guest:

```
kubectl get vmi <vm-name> -o json | jq '.spec.domain.features.hyperv'

> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
1. Restart the virtual machine to apply the changes.

1. Verify that the enlightenments are active from the cluster level.

  ```
  kubectl get vmi <vm-name> -o json | jq '.spec.domain.features.hyperv'
  ```
````

> The set above matches the "balanced set for performance and stability" recommended in the SUSE Support KB article [_Lower disk I/O performance in Windows 11 VMs compared to Linux guests on Harvester_](https://support.scc.suse.com/s/kb/Lower-disk-I-O-performance-in-Windows-11-VMs-compared-to-Linux-guests-on-Harvester). More aggressive enlightenments (`tlbflush`, `frequencies`, `reenlightenment`, or `synictimer` with `direct: true`) can be enabled per-VM when the cluster hardware supports them, but they may affect live-migration compatibility across nodes with different CPU generations — see the [KubeVirt Hyper-V enlightenments documentation](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/compute/hyperv/) and the [SUSE Virtualization blog on tuning Windows VM performance](https://www.suse.com/c/tuning-windows-vm-performance-on-suse-virtualization/) for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The configuration above matches the recommendation for "best balance between performance and stability" in the SUSE Support Knowledge Base article [Lower disk I/O performance in Windows 11 VMs compared to Linux guests on Harvester](https://support.scc.suse.com/s/kb/Lower-disk-I-O-performance-in-Windows-11-VMs-compared-to-Linux-guests-on-Harvester). 

You can enable more aggressive enlightenments (such as `tlbflush`, `frequencies`, `reenlightenment`, or `synictimer` with `direct: true`) on individual virtual machines to improve their performance. However, these enlightenments have the following disadvantages:

- Require explicit support from the underlying cluster hardware.
- Can affect live-migration compatibility across cluster nodes that run on different CPU generations.

For more information, see [HyperV optimizations](https://kubevirt.io/user-guide/user_workloads/guest_operating_system_information/#hyperv-optimizations) in the KubeVirt documentation and [Tuning Windows VM Performance on SUSE Virtualization](https://www.suse.com/c/tuning-windows-vm-performance-on-suse-virtualization/) in the SUSE blog.
```
